# HonorsProject
Procedurally Generating a 3D Game World

  The  purpose  of  this  project  was  to  explore  and  design  a  suitable  solution  for  procedurally  generating  a  3D  game  world.  There  are  various  ideas  on  the  Internet  discussing  how  to  go  about  achieving  that.  However,  there  are  little  code  examples  that  provide  a  solution  that  tackles  most  of  the  problems  that  come  up.  Some  issues  such  as  defining  the  objects  that  will  be  used  to  generate  the  level,  the  collision  between  those  objects,  so  they  do  not  overlap  do  not  have  many  good  code  examples.  These  are  some  of  the  issues  that  a  well-implemented  solution  should  have  solved.  Moreover,  those  code  examples  do  not  provide  a  good  user  interface  for  those  who  would  like  to  use  the  code  to  build  their  own  games’  world  using  procedurally  generated  levels.
  
  The  objectives  set  for  the  project  were  to  implement  a  solution  to  the  described  problem  that  provides  users  not  only  with  an  example  of  well-commented,  easy  to  read  and  understandable  code  that  they  can  use  and  expand  but  also  let  them  focus  on  designing  and  adding  features  to  their  game  world,  rather  than  focusing  on  building  the  level  itself.  Game  engines  provide  developers  with  the  tools  with  which  to  create  fantastic  games.  The  project  would  go  one  step  further  by  using  a  game  engine  to  implement  a  solution  to  the  problem  and  let  developers  expand  and  build  their  games  using  the  solution.  However,  for  this  to  be  viable,  the  game  worlds  that  the  solution  generates  needed  to  make  sense  to  the  player.  Hence  an  essential  objective  of  the  project  was  that  the  generated  levels  were  logically  connected  -  the  way  they  were  joined  made  sense  for  the  player  exploring  them.
  
  The  Unity3D  game  engine  was  used  for  implementing  the  solution  to  the  problem.  The  engine  was  chosen  over  others  as  it  is  easy  to  learn  and  provides  a  friendlier  interface  to  new  users.  The  solution  is  written  in  the  C#  programming  language.    After  the  research  phase,  the  initial  idea  for  a  solution  for  tackling  the  problem  was  changed.  The  new  solution  would  focus  on  working  with  imported  room  models.  Models  that  are  premade  in  a  3D  computer  graphics  program,  giving  the  user  the  freedom  to  design  and  model  the  rooms  however  they  see  fit.  This  approach  was  taken  instead  of  generating  the  rooms  themselves  because  many  features  can  be  added  to  a  model  in  a  3D  computer  graphics  program  which  the  implemented  algorithm  cannot  know  in  advance.
  
  The  project  successfully  creates  a  procedurally  generated  3D  dungeon  level.  It  builds  an  entire  level  using  the  room  models  that  have  been  provided  and  set  up  by  the  user.  It  also  includes  multiple  options  for  several  of  the  implemented  features  such  as  player  collision  setup.  Furthermore,  the  solution  can  easily  be  expanded  to  include  even  more  features  –  such  as  filling  the  rooms  with  other  objects,  monsters  that  the  players  can  fight  or  hidden  treasures.    
